So where did you go to school? Well initially in Whitchurch. I went to the
State School and that didn't work out very well because I couldn't speak
English and I was teased mercilessly. I don't think you can call it bullying,
it wasn't physical, it was just, you know, they would call me names. Jerry was the
favorite one because of course the war just started and they would run around
pretending to be airplanes as little children did in those days with arms
outstretched making noises and I was always the Messerschmitt which got shot
at. Anyway it was, it wasn't very pleasant and the fact that I couldn't
speak a word of English of course and no effort was really made to include me in
the lessons. So every day at break time at ten o'clock I sneaked out through the
gate and ran home and this went on for three or four months apparently until
well nobody missed me for a start but I was caught by my father's sister, my aunt
who came to visit my mother unexpectedly and found me sitting on the railway
bangman watching the trains and of course she told my mother and that was
the first intimation that my mother had that something had gone wrong at school
and then they took me away from there and sent me to a small private school
called Macefield House and then that lasted for about a year including
through all the air raids and so on which quite often we were caught either
on the way home as the planes came over and the sirens went and we were told
well you go to the nearest house and ask them can you shelter which we did on a
few occasions and then eventually Macefield House closed down and the
whole school was transferred to another small private school and maybe two or
three hundred yards away called Lamorna and then I was there right up until the
age of 11 so really I was in the Lamorna school for maybe four or five years then I
did my 11 plus exam and by some quirk of fate because Wichurch wasn't part
of Cardiff in those days it was part of Glamorgan and there were two schools on
offer either there was Wichurch Grammar School or there was P'Nath Grammar
School which is there over the road and I think because my name started with S
and they had too many people I was put down to go to P'Nath now for anyone who
lived in Wichurch being sent to P'Nath was as bad as failing your 11 plus so my
parents then decided to send me to Christ College in Brecon which is a
public school and I was there for the next seven years